# Getting Started

## Course Introduction

This course is for the people who are looking to learn the thing which is used in Angular in detail and also for the people who are interested to build some new projects with TypeScript or covert existing project to TypeScript.

This course will also cover some of the additional features which are supplied by exclusive by TypeScript like

* Interfaces
* Generics
* Decorators.

How to use frameworks like JQuery which is written only in JavaScript.
To include types for it and get intelligent suggestion by IDE.

## What is TypeScript

TypeScript is a wrapper for JavaScript which will includes all the features which are available in latest version of JavaScript and will compile the source code to plain JavaScript which is supported by all the browsers.

## Why TypeScript and how to use it

We can specify a variable which type it is going to hold. By this it will give a error if we assigned or performed a invalid operation on the variable which is not vaild. Defining the types is one of the many features of TypeScript.

## Installing TypeScript

To see the TypeScript in action we can use the playgroud which is available in official website for local development we can install typescript with node package manager.

```shell
npm install -g typescript
```

## Using TypeScript

We can compile any script.ts file to script.js using this command.

```shell
tsc script.ts
```

If we have any compilation errors it will return on command prompt.

## Setting up the Course Workflow

In this course we will use a npm type of project repository. We can initialize that with this command.

```shell
npm init
```

We need a local server to serve the whole project and when ever we change the file we can automatically reload. To install a local server we can use the npm.

```shell
npm install lite-server
```

We can also put this project with the typescript by running the below command. By this when ever we run tsc command it will look for all the ts files in the project and covert them to js.

```shell
tsc init ```