# Using Types for a better Code

## Introduction

In this module we will learn, How to use types and how to be flexible with types.

Which types exists by default and how to create own types.

## Types Basics

In TypeScript we must be explicit about the types for the variables which are undefined

```typescript
let name: string;

name = 'Mani Chandu';
name = 25;
/* Error: Type number cannot be assigned to type string */
```

## Numbers & Booleans

TypeScript is also having numbers and booleans as default types.

```typescript
let age: number;
let hasHobbies: boolean;

age = 25;
hasHobbies = true;
```

## Assigning Types Explicitly

When we are assigning a initial value to a variable TypeScript will assign the type to the variable implicitly by the value.

We can explicitly assign a type to a variable when the variable is undefined with a ```variableName: 'type'```.

If we have a undefined variable and we didn't explicitly specify the type to variable it will be of type ```any```. This is a special type in TypeScript which accepts dynamic typing feature just like JavaScript.

## Arrays and Types

Elements inside the array will assign the type of the array implicitly.
We can even assign for all elements of the array the ```any``` type.

```typescript
let array = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd'];
array = [1];
/* Error: Type string[] cannot be assigned to number[] */

let anyArray: any[] = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd'];
anyArray = [1];
```

## Tuples

This is the new type which is available in TypeScript. We can specify the type with tuple for an array which has the fixed value format.

```typescript
let tupleArray: [string, number] = ['Mani Chandu', 25]
```

## Enums

When we are receive a data in numbers from backend and just for the users we want to transform those values some understandable text in this kind of use cases we can use the enums. If we assign a custom value for an enum the following elements will have the increment of the previous value.

```typescript
enum colorCodes {
  red = 1,
  green,
  blue,
  black = 0
}

console.log(colorCodes.red);
```

## The "Any" Type

With this we will get the native JavaScript type of flexibility.
But it is always recommended to strong type all the variables.
If we use any TypeScript cannot offer the code suggestion or the errors while compilation.

```typescript
let car:any = 'BMW';
car = {
  brand: 'BMW'
  model: 'Series-3'
  }
```

## Understanding the created JavaScript Code

All the types which we specified explicitly were removed in JavaScript code as it won't understand types.

## Using Types in Functions (Arguments & Return Values)

We can specify the return type of a function, If a function is not returning anything that can be a ```void``` type and we can also specify the arguments types.

```typescript
function multiply(firstValue: number, secondValue: number): number {
  return firstValue * secondValue;
}

multiply(128, 8);
```

## Function as Types

We can set a function types with TypeScript.

```typescript
function multiply(firstValue: number, secondValue: number): number {
  return firstValue * secondValue;
}

let multiplyTwoValues: (value1: number, value2: number) => number;
multiplyTwoValues = multiply;

multiplyTwoValues(4, 1024);
```

## Objects and Types

We can set the types for objects.

```typescript
let person = {
  name: 'Mani Chandu',
  age: 25
}

person = {
  hobbies:  ['Badminton']
}

/*
Error as the type name:string and age: number cannot be assigned
hobbies: [string]
*/

let person: {name: string, age: number} = {
  name: 'Mani Chandu',
  age: 25
}
```

## Creating custom Types with Type Aliases

We can define any custom type with the ```type``` keyword. This make us to create a type which can be used very easy to use.

```typescript
type Complex = {
  name: string
  age: number
  hobbies: string[]
};

let person: Complex = {
  name: 'Mani Chandu',
  age: 25,
  hobbies: [
    'Badminton'
  ]
}
```

## Allowing multiple Types with Union Types

If we need a variable which holds either string or number. We can keep union types to this kind of variable with ```|```.

```typescript
let age: number | string;

age = 25;

age = 'twenty five';
```

## Checking for Types during Runtime

We can check the type of the any variable with this kind of check.

```typescript
let finalNumber = 128;

if (typeof finalNumber == 'number') {
  console.log(128/8);
}
```

## The "never" Type (added with TypeScript 2.0)

In code there are few places we want them never to be invoked. But they are written to handel few scenarios like error handling function which need ```never```
as a type.

```typescript
function logError(): never {
  throw new Error('An Error');
}
```

## Nullable Types (added with TypeScript 2.0)

strictNullChecks in tsconfig.ts file if it is made true. We cannot assign any other type to null value or any variable which is initialized with null cannot be assigned with any values. To change this behavior we need to use union type in combination with null or set the variable with any.

```typescript
/* tsconfig.ts */
'strictNullChecks' : 'true'

let total = 50;
total = null;
/* Error Type number cannot be assigned to type null */

let total: number | null = 50;
total = null;

let value = null;
value = 1024;
/* Error Type null cannot be assigned to type number */

let value: any = null; value = 1024;
```
