# Understanding the TypeScript Compiler

## Introduction

We will see the way the compiler deals with the TypeScript code while converting this to JavaScript.

## How Code gets Compiled

Even though we got an error during the compilation process app.ts will be converted to app.js
TypeScript will do as it was not aware of the imports. This is the default behavior of the compiler
however we can make it strict check if we want.

## Changing the Compiler Behavior on Errors

```target``` is the JavaScript version which we are targeting to get converted. default will be es5
```noEmitOnError``` will stop generating the JavaScript file if the TypeScript code got compilation error.

## Debugging your TypeScript Code using Source Maps

If we want to debug the TypeScript code directly in the browser we need to turn the ```sourceMaps``` flag to true in the tsconfig.ts file.
Which will produce the extra source map file after the compilation but helps us to debug the code in the browser.

## Avoiding implicit "Any"

If we didn't assign type to a variable it will take the implicitly as any. If we want to change this behavior we can change in the tsconfig.ts file.
```'noImplicitlyAny': 'true'``` If we did this we cannot leave any variable without assign a type definition to it, compiler will gives the error message that we didn't assigned type definition to a variable.

## More Compiler Options

We can use the compiler option which are available. Need to specify the --watch if we are running this command in terminal. If we are specifying in the tsconfig file we need to remove the leading --.

## Compiler Improvements with TypeScript 2.0

TSCompiler is smart to understand the code flow and will return any error if a scenario may lead.
noUnusedParameter in tsconfig will throw error if we have a function with unused parameters.

```typescript
function controller(isTrue: boolean) {
  let result: number;
  if (isTrue) {
    result = 33;
  }
  return number;
}

/* If the noImplicitNullChecks is true then it will throw an error As code flow
can leads to not enter the if block and return number */
```
