# Modules and Namespaces

## Introduction

* The huge JavaScript projects can be modularized using module loaders by this we can split the JavaScript projects into multiple files.
* TypeScript supports this modular code using two concepts.

1. Namespaces
2. Modules

## An Introduction to Namespaces

* Namespaces are a kind of Immediate Invoked Functions. With a controlled calling.
* Namespaces groups piece of code like a JavaScript Object.
* We will have the block level scope for NameSpace. This will reduce the pollution of JavaScript.

```typescript
namespace MyMath {
    const PI = 3.14;

    export function calculateCircumferenceOfCircle(diameter: number) {
        console.log(PI * diameter);
    }
}

MyMath.calculateCircumferenceOfCircle(10);
```

## Namespaces and Multiple Files

* We can make different files which share same namespace. And a file to invoke those methods.
* We can combine all those files during the compilation by running this command.

```powershell
tsc --outfile app.js circleMath.ts rectangleMath.ts
```

## Namespace Imports

* We can specify the order and specify the namespaces which are needed for the final bundle.

```typescript
/// <reference path="circleMath.ts" />
/// <reference path="rectangleMath.ts" />

console.log(MyMath.calculateCircumference(10));

```

```powershell
tsc --outfile app.js
```

## More on Namespaces

* We can nest the namespaces within a namespace.

```typescript
/* circle.ts */
namespace MyMath {
  export namespace Circle {
    const PI = 3.14;

    export function calculateCircumferenceOfCircle(diameter: number) {
        console.log(PI * diameter);
    }
  }
}
```

```typescript
/* app.ts */
/// <reference path="circleMath.ts" />
/// <reference path="rectangleMath.ts" />

console.log(MyMath.Circle.calculateCircumference(10));

/* Can also make aliases using import */
import CircleMath = MyMath.Circle;

console.log(CircleMath.calculateCircumference(10));
```

## Limitations of Namespaces

* Namespaces are good for smaller use cases.
* Incase we have more nested namespaces and dependent namespaces it is hard to maintain the list of imports.

## Modules

* We can export the constant, variables, methods and classes.
* When we require any item we need to import just like ES6 Modules import and export.

```typescript
/* FilePath: math/circle.ts */
export const PI = 3.14;

export function calculateCircumferenceOfCircle(diameter: number) {
    console.log(PI * diameter);
}
```

```typescript
/* app.ts */

import { PI, calculateCircumferenceOfCircle } from '../math/circle.ts';

console.log(PI);
console.log(calculateCircumference(10));
/* app.js:2 Uncaught ReferenceError: exports is not defined */
```

## Loading Modules

* Module system will take the entire JavaScript code and converts them into specified ES version using some module system keywords. And there are many module system available for JavaScript.
* But there are many keywords which are not understand by native JavaScript
* SystemJS is a universal module loader which can loads ES6 Modules, SystemJS, amd.
* Module Loaders add the JavaScript which are not natively understood by the browsers like polyfills.

## Importing & Exporting Modules

* We can use all available syntax of ES6 modules in TypeScript.

```typescript
import * as Circle from './math/circle';
// export default function areaOfRectangle() { ... }
import calArea from './math/rectangle';

console.log(Circle.PI);
Circle.circumferenceOfCircle(10);
calArea(10, 9);

```

## Namespaces vs Modules

### Namespaces

* Organizes the app using the JavaScript Objects. We can split up over multiple files.
* No Module loaders are required. Dependencies get difficult to manage in bigger applications.

### Module

* Organize the application with real Modules. Can be split over multiple files.
* Module loaders required. Explicit dependencies declaration.
