# The Document Object Model

## Introduction

Interaction between the HTML and JavaScript will be done here. As we need to change the HTML code during runtime or evaluate the HTML elements.

Windows Object mean the A tab of a browser window from the location bar till the bottom of the screen. We can access the location of a page by accessing the location key on windows object.

When browser takes in the basic HTML it will build the DOM we can visit that from browser Elements tab in Developer Tools

## The Window Object

* The global scope is the window object. We can access the whole windows * width and height window.innerWidth window.innerHeight
* Local Storage is available on this level.
* Session Storage will also be available in this level
* window.location will return the url location of the page.
* window.document this will return the DOM of the page.
* window.open will take a url and opens that url as a pop up.

```javascript
console.log(window.innerWidth);
console.log(window.innerHeight);

console.log(window.outerWidth);
console.log(window.outerHeight);

console.log(window);

window.localStorage.setItem('userName', 'Mani Chandu');
console.log(localStorage.getItem('userName'));

window.sessionStorage.setItem('Environment', 'Google Chrome');
console.log(sessionStorage.getItem('Environment'));

console.log(window.location);
console.log(window.document);
window.open('https://www.google.com/');
```

## The location object

* hostname: Prints the domain name
* pathname: Prints the path name
* reload: reloads the page
* replace: takes the new url and redirect to that url

```javascript
console.log(window.location.hostname);
console.log(window.location.pathname);
window.location.reload();
window.location.replace('https://www.google.com/');
```

## The Document Object and How to Interact with It

* url, title, body and children
* We can able to print the tab url and title.
Body is a property of the document it contains children which are the elements in the page.
* We can access these children and set the textContent or the styles.
To select elements with children[] will be tough when we grow the page so we will see the other ways.

```html
  <ul>
    <li class="main-nav-list-item" id="active"><a href="#">Link 1</a></li>
    <li class="main-nav-list-item"><a href="#">Link 2</a></li>
    <li class="main-nav-list-item"><a href="#">Link 3</a></li>
  </ul>
 ```

```javascript
console.log(document.URL);
console.log(document.title);
console.log(document.body);
console.log(document.body.children);
console.log(document.body.children[1].textContent);
document.body.children[1].textContent = 'DOM (Document Object Model)';
document.body.children[1].style.backgroundColor = 'MediumSeaGreen';
```

## Traversing the DOM

* We can also navigate between elements with some properties like
firstElementChild, lastElementChild
* We can nest the firstElementChild.firstElementChild.nextSibling
* We can also use the parentElement

```javascript
console.log(document.body.firstElementChild.firstElementChild.nextElementSibling.textContent);
console.log(document.body.firstElementChild.firstElementChild.parentElement);
```

## Selecting Elements

The above way of selecting the element requires to count the elements from HTML document which is not that much easy.

Now we have a traditional way of selecting the objects with ```getElementsByTagName```, ```getElementsByClassName```, ```getElementById```
Element chain selection will break when we update the html document

```javascript
console.log(document.getElementsByTagName('li'));
console.log(document.getElementsByClassName('main-nav-list-item'));
console.log(document.getElementById('active'));
```

## Selecting Elements with Query Selector

We can select with single method of query selector either a tagName, id or class this works the way how css selectors works.

```querySelector()``` this will return the first element which matches the query.
If we want an array we need use ```querySelectorAll()```

```javascript
console.log(document.querySelector('h1'));
console.log(document.querySelector('.main-nav-list-item'));
console.log(document.querySelector('#active'));
console.log(document.querySelectorAll('li'));
```

## Selecting Elements Exercise

* If we want to select a first list item anchor tag which doesn't have any id or class
Selected with ```querySelector('a');```
* If we want to select the last list item and there is a class so we selected with class.
* If we want to select the anchor link and li is having a class then we can select with className and select with firstChild

```javascript
document.querySelector('#active').firstElementChild.style.backgroundColor = 'DodgerBlue';
document.querySelector('#active').firstElementChild.style.color = 'white';
```

## Create a Element

We can create a element and insert it in the dom wherever we want.
In this example we want to insert a para to first list item after and before.

```javascript
var para = document.createElement('P');
para.textContent = 'This is a paragraph';
para.style.fontSize = '16px';
var anchor = document.querySelector('a');
document.querySelector('#active').appendChild(para);
document.querySelector('#active').insertBefore(para, anchor);
```

## Deleting a Element

* We will see the cross browser working method and the later method in the end.
* We are going to remove the link 2
* We need to select the element which we need to remove. Then we need to select the parent and removeChild to remove safely.
selected element and remove will also remove.

```javascript
var secondAnchor = document.querySelectorAll('a')[1];
secondAnchor.parentElement.removeChild(secondAnchor);
// secondAnchor.remove();
```

## Elements and Nodes

Nodes may not be a html element on a page but all the parent elements can be nodes.

## DOM Interaction Summary

* Selecting, Editing, Creating, Inserting, Deleting
* This how we can make a reactive elements.
* It is good to practice on own to select the elements so we can make use of all the kinds of selectors which are available.

## Dialogs

Build in window object offers the dialogs

* **Alert**: Shows an alert
* **Confirm**: Show a pop up which takes Okay or Cancel this will return boolean based on user interaction
* **Prompt**: Show a pop up where we can type the text inside and it will be returned as string.

*These kind of dialogs are used 10 years ago right now we use modals with JS and CSS for uniform UI.*

```javascript
alert('Hello This is an Alert'); confirm('Select your choice'); prompt('Enter your Name');

```