# Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript

## What is OOP

A programming pattern centered around objects rather than functions.

> Many of the popular JavaScript frameworks are designed keeping object oriented programming concepts in mind. Example: Angular.

## Procedural Programming

This divides the program into set of functions and data stored in bunch of variables and the functions that operate on the data.

1. This approach is simple and very straight forward.
2. As the program grow, we will end up with bunch of functions.
3. we might copy pasting lines of code over and over.
4. If we make a change to one function then several other functions breaks.

```javascript
// Procedural Programming
let baseSalary = 30000;
let overtime = 10;
let rate = 20;

function getWage(baseSalary, overtime, rate) {
  return baseSalary + (overtime * rate);
}
```

## Object Oriented Programming

We combine a group of related variables and function into a unit an object. These variables are called as properties and functions as methods.

## Four Pillars of Object Oriented Programming

### Encapsulation

In object-oriented programming we group related
variables, and functions that operate on them into objects.

```javascript
let employee() {
  baseSalary: 30000,
  overtime: 10,
  rate: 20,
  getWage: function () {
    return this.baseSalary + (this.overtime * this.rate);
  }
};
employee.getWage();
```

> Reduces complexity + increase reusability

### Abstraction

We can hide some of the properties and methods from the outside and this will give us couple of benefits.

Simple Interface: Using and understanding an object with a few properties and methods is easier than an object with several properties and methods.

Reduce the impact of change: We can change the private methods internal code without breaking any of the existing functionality.

> Reduce complexity + isolate impact of changes

### Inheritance

Allows to eliminate the redundant code.

### Polymorphism

Poly means many and morph means form. Allows us to eliminate the long if and else or switch cases.
A method will behave differently depending on the type of the object we are referencing.

> Refactor ugly switch/case statements.

## Course Outline

1. Objects
2. Prototypes
3. Prototypical Inheritance
4. ES6 Classes
5. Modules
