# Getting Started

## Course Introduction

In this course we will learn. What Angular is and how to build awesome Front End Applications with Angular.

## What is Angular

Angular is a JavaScript Framework which allows you to create reactive Single-Page-Applications(SPAs).
Angular has only single index.html page. When ever we want to change the page the JavaScript will build the DOM.
As JavaScript can build the DOM much faster then loading a separate page the Angular applications are much reactive like Mobile Applications.
If we need any additional data from the backend we can fetch and present it with
Angular.

## Angular vs Angular 2 vs Angular 7

AngularJS was initially released in 2010 which created a revolution in creating the Web Application the concept of SPA and build the complete page with DOM manipulation.

Angular Version 2 was referred as Angular was rewritten from the scratch by the same team in 2016. The present version of Angular is version 7.
From Angular 2 - 7  there are no breaking changes instead Angular got improved in many aspects.

## CLI Deep Dive & Troubleshooting

Angular CLI is available and many of its depends are available on npm(node package manager). This will be installed if we install NodeJS. To setup Angular CLI we need to follow the below steps.

* Install latest NodeJS it will install NPM.
* Install Angular CLI globally.

```shell
npm install -g @angular/cli@latest
```

## Project Setup and First App

NodeJS will be used by the CLI in order to bundle and optimize the final package. NPM is to manage the different dependencies in the project.

* To start a new project with Angular. We need to run this command.

```shell
ng new my-app
```

* This will create a new project with the name my-app with all the necessary dependencies required for building and deploying the project.

* To serve the project we need to run couple of build process. As Angular is depended on TypeScript it is needed to be transpile to JavaScript. To run the project on the local machine we need to run this command.

```shell
ng serve --open
```

* This will compile the project and deploy it with lite-server on this address. [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200)

## Editing the First App

Data binding in action with string interpolation syntax. ```{{title}}``` the data which is present for title variable will get printed on the template.

With selector we are creating our own html tag and we included such a tag in index.html ```<app-root></app-root>```.

At the End of index.html file couple of script tag are present those were generated by the angular/cli during the build process.

We can edit the first app. In the below example for this we used a Angular build in directive which is called as ```[(ngModel)]```. This will take the user input and displays it and at the same time assigns to the variable.

* [(ngModel)] is available in a different package with in Angular. We need to import it as a FormsModule which is available at @angular/Forms.
Under imports we need to add the FormsModule.

```html
<!-- app.component.html -->
<input type="text" [(ngModel)]="name">
<p>{{name}}</p>
```

```typescript
/* app.component.ts */
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  name = 'Mani Chandu';
}

```

```typescript
/* app.module.ts */
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { FormsModule } from "@angular/forms";

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    FormsModule
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }

```

## The Course Structure

This course consists of the following modules.

* Getting Started
* The Basics
* Components & Data binding
* Directive
* Services & Dependency Injection
* Routing
* Observables
* Forms
* Pipes
* Http
* Authentication
* Optimization & NgModules
* Deployment
* Animation & Testing

## How to get the Most out of the Course

* Watch the videos
* Do the Assignments
* Do the course Project
* Ask in Q&A

## What is TypeScript

This is a wrapper for JavaScript with additional features like Types, Interfaces, Genarics and Decorators. TypeScript will be compiled to JavaScript in the end so that is one of the reason why we need angular/cli.

## A Basic Project Setup using Bootstrap for Styling

To include the Bootstrap in the Angular project. First we need to install from npm

```shell
npm install --save bootstrap
```

To include in the angular project we need to include in angular.json file under
the styles: [], specifying the path of the css style sheet.