# Template Driven Forms

## Module Introduction

* As Angular builds project as a single page application we need to handel the forms with Angular.

## Why do we Need Angular Help

* JavaScript Object Representation of the form to make it simple to check the state of the form.
* We can validate the form before submitting the value.

## Template-Driven (TD) vs Reactive Approach

* **Template Driven**: Angular infers the form object from the DOM.
* **Reactive**: Form is created programmatically and synchronized with DOM.

## An Example Form

* We have a attached a simple form with type text and email field and a submit button.

## TD: Creating the Form and Registering the Controls

* Form selector on the html page will understood by the Angular and it will create an object which hold the entire state of the form
* By default Angular won't import all the input attributes into the form. We need to register the controls.
* ngModel decorator is used to register the form control it needs html name attribute.

```html
<form>
  <label for="username">Username</label>
  <input type="text" id="username" class="form-control" ngModel name="username">
</form>
```

## Submitting and Using the Form

* In a form if we have a button of type submit. If we triggered a click on such button.
* It will emit a JavaScript event of form submit this is the native behavior of JavaScript and HTML.
* (ngSubmit) directive in Angular will handel this event.
* To access form data we need to pass special keyword to ```#``` reference as ngForm
* We will get the access of the form object which is created by the Angular

```html
<form (ngSubmit)="onSubmit(fd)" #fd="ngForm">
  <label for="username">Username</label>
  <input type="text" id="username" class="form-control" ngModel name="username">

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

```typescript
onSubmit(formData: ngForm) {
  console.log(formData);
}

```

## TD: Understanding Form State

* **dirty** : when we changed the value of the form.
* **disabled** : when we disabled a form field to get.
* **invalid** : when a validator condition is not met.
* **touched** : when a user clicked the form field.

## TD: Accessing the Form with @ViewChild

* We can access the formData using the viewChild.
* This way of accessing the data before the submission can helps us to do pre validation or to perform some reactive events.

## TD: Adding Validation to check User Input

* In template driven approach we can add validation only to html elements.
* required is a build in html attribute to check the form field is filled or not.
* email is a angular directive will check the email is valid or not.
* We can track the valid state of the form at whole form level and individually level in the JavaScript Object of the form.
* The active html elements were also given with some classes as ng-untouched ng-pristine ng-valid

## Built-in Validators & Using HTML5 Validation

* To enable HTML5 validation (by default, Angular disables it). You can do so by adding the ngNativeValidate to a control in your template.

## TD: Using the Form State

* We can add the custom CSS for the ng-invalid and ng-touched to style it with a red border.

## TD: Outputting Validation Error Messages

* We can add a local reference with ```#``` and assign that to ngModel. By this we can able to check the valid state of the individual element.
* With ```*ngIf``` We can hide and show the helper text.

```html
<input type="email" id="email" class="form-control" ngModel #mail="ngModel" name="mail" email>
<small id="emailHelp" class="form-text text-danger" *ngIf="!mail.valid && mail.touched">Enter a valid Email ID</small>
```

## TD: Set Default Values with ngModel Property Binding

* Using property binding on ```[ngModel]``` will helps us to assign some pre text to input fields.

## TD: Using ngModel with Two-Way-Binding

* We can have the two way binding even on forms.

## TD: Grouping Form Controls

* We can have different groups for specific sections of the forms.
* So we can have the controls of the forms very selective to the targeted group.
* ```ngModelGroup="userData"``` to assign as a group.
* We can access the data with element reference with a directive. ```#userData="ngModelGroup"```

## TD: Handling Radio Buttons

* We can assign the radio button just with ngModel and used ngFor directive.

## TD: Setting and Patching Form Values

* setValue to set the whole form.
* patchValue to set the value of a specific field of the form.

## TD: Using Form Data

* We can print the user data by assigning it to a object.

```typescript
  suggestUserName() {
    this.formData.setValue({
      userData: {
        username: 'SuperUser',
        mail: ''
      },
      secret: 'teacher',
      gender: 'Male'
    });

    this.formData.form.patchValue({
      userData: {
        username: 'SuperUser'
      }
    });
  }
```

## TD: Resetting Forms

* We can reset the entire form using a method on Form Object.

```typescript
  onSubmit(formData: NgForm): void {
    console.log(formData);
    this.formData = formData.value;
    formData.reset();
  }
```