# HTTP

## Http & Backend Interaction

* We cannot persist the data with Angular alone as it will works at browser level.
* Angular is capable of communicating with server to fetch and store data.
* Angular uses HTTP and Observables concepts.

## How do I connect Angular to a Database

* We wont connect directly to database using Angular as this is JavaScript Framework as code is exposed to users.
* So the credentials are visible easily to everyone who inspects the code or we may have special condition to operate like file uploads.
* So to communicate with backend we relay on sending Http Requests and Receiving Http Responses back from server.
* Server is defined as API in the form of REST or GraphQL.
* This API resembles like website but in the end they will return data in JSON format instead of HTML pages.
* To crete such API we use NodeJS, PHP or Java server side languages.

## The Anatomy of a Http Request

* **HTTP Verb**: Specify whether we want to fetch, store, modify or delete existing data. GET, POST, PUT and DELETE
* **URL (API Endpoint)**: Exact path of the API to interact with domain.com/get/posts/
* **Headers (Metadata)**: We can send additional data. Default will be appended by the Browser, Angular or we can set. {'Content-Type': 'application/JSON'}
* **Body**: For some verbs we can attach the body which contains the core data. (POST, PUT and PATCH)

## Backend (Firebase) Setup

* Firebase is a complete backend service.
* We will use the real time database in this course.
* Initially we will choose the test mode later we can add the lock.

## Sending a POST Request

* Request will be send only if we subscribe.
* HttpClientModule needs to be imported from @angular/common/http
* HttpClient has the post method which will take minimum two arguments. url and  body
* This need to be subscribe so we can subscribe the response status.
* Angular will convert the body as JSON before sending the post request.
<!-- Need to Add code -->

## Getting Data

* To send the get request we can use the HttpClient get method which will take only one argument.
* We need to subscribe to get data.
* This method can be called on ngOnInit so we can fetch the data on page loads.
* If we are getting the data in form of JSON object and if we want to fit that object in an array we need to use RxJS Operators to transforms response data.
<!-- Need to Add code -->

## Using RxJS Operators to Transform Response Data

* We can format the data using the operators.
* The map operator is used to format which is an observable.
* Used spread operator and assigned key individually.
* hasOwnProperty to verify that we are not looping through prototypes
<!-- Need to Add code -->

## Using Types with the HttpClient

* We are receiving the data as uniqueKey which holds the form posted value.
* The unique key doesn't have a common name but it is an string. So we wrap like this in TypeScript
* ```{[key: string] : {name: string, content: string, key? : string}}```
* The get method is a generic method so we can add the type definition directly to it.
<!-- Need to Add code -->

## Outputting Posts

* We can assign the returned values to a variable and that helps us to showcase on the template.
<!-- Need to add code -->

## Showing a Loading Indicator

* By creating a boolean variable we can set that state to isLoading to true while we are fetching.
* false to once we completed the fetch.
* With this boolean variable we can show a spinner icon on the template until the isLoading state turned to false.

## Using a Service for Http Requests

* In Angular the heavy lifting tasks were needed to be taken care by the services.
* Even the response formatting job is not suggested to be done in components.
* Components are ideally needs to be leaner with only template specific code and must be split if they grow huge.
* We need to out source the http related code to a service as a recommended practice.

## Services & Components Working Together

* If we have a connected action in component after a service http call method.
* We can return the method and we can subscribe to that in the component file.

## Sending a DELETE Request

* We can use the HttpClient delete method to delete and we subscribe in the template file to clear the array which we assigned.

## Handling Errors

* Call to servers can fail out of many reasons like unauthorized access, server down etc...
* We can handel such errors with the second parameter of the subscribe method. Which return a error object.
* This detailed object can be set from the server side.
* We can assign the error property to a variable and can show on the user interface.
* To get a error we changed the rules in the firebase and set the read access to false.
* Usually we will have a error.message property.

## Using Subjects for Error Handling

## Using the catchError Operator

## Error handling and UX

## Headers

* We can add the additional information to a header like authorization or content-type in header.
* In Angular we can add the header and it will be the last argument of the any call.
* Header is a object which take header as the property.
* We can set the header with the new keyword HttpHeader.

```typescript
this.http.get<{ [key: string]: Post }>('https://angular-http-29fd6.firebaseio.com/posts.json', {
      headers: new HttpHeaders({
        'Custom-Message': 'Hello'
      })
});
```

## Query Params

* We can add the query params inside the last argument as query params.
* HttpParams will set the key and value taking as two argument.
* We can chain the multiple params into one by create a variable.
* This searchParam is immutable so we will reassign.
* With append the old onces will be kept and new ones will be added.

```typescript
this.http.get<{ [key: string]: Post }>('https://angular-http-29fd6.firebaseio.com/posts.json', {
      headers: new HttpHeaders({
        'Custom-Message': 'Hello'
      }),
      params: new HttpParams().set('print', 'pretty')
});


let searchParams = new HttpParams();
searchParams = searchParams.append('print', 'pretty');
searchParams = searchParams.append('key', 'value');

this.http.get<{ [key: string]: Post }>('https://angular-http-29fd6.firebaseio.com/posts.json', {
  headers: new HttpHeaders({
    'Custom-Message': 'Hello'
  }),
  params: searchParams
});

```
