# The Basics

## Module Introduction

* We will look how the Angular app gets loaded.
* What are the basic building blocks of this Angular.
* Build a Basic application.

## How an Angular App gets Loaded and Started

Angular app starts from main.ts file. In this file

```typescript
platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
```

Will try to look for the AppModule bootstrap array this helps the angular to construct the contents to bundle files at the end in the index.html files it will try to import. In this way it will try to load the page.

```html
<app-root>Loading...</app-root>
```

Here ```<app-root></app-root>``` is the custom html element this will load the view. Angular can bind a custom html element with the help of @Component selector.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.scss']
})
```

## Components are Important

Components are the basic building blocks of the angular application. By splitting the individual section of the page to multiple components. We have the flexibility to reuse the component whenever we want. We have more modular code which is in return very easy to maintain.

## Creating a New Component

* Component is a class. Angular is able to instantiate to create objects with the blueprint what we have setup.
* We need to export as we are going to use it any other place we want.
* We use @Component decorator to give some additional features to the usual class.
* This @Component will give some additional meta information about the templates in the form of JavaScript object.

```typescript
import { Component } from "@angular/core";

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server',
  templateUrl: './server.component.html'
})

export class ServerComponent { }

```

## Understanding the Role of AppModule and Component Declaration

Angular basically uses component to build webpages and modules to create packages.
Only bigger projects expects to split the app into multiple modules.

Even the Modules is also a class with a @NgModule decorator which takes declarations, imports, provider, bootstrap properties.

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { FormsModule } from "@angular/forms";

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { ServerComponent } from './server/server.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    ServerComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    FormsModule
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }

```

If we created a new component we need to specify in the ```declaration:[]``` with an ```import``` statement at the beginning of the file.

If we have a multi module application we need to specify the module in ```imports:[]```with an ```import``` statement at the beginning of the file.

## Using Custom Components

We can insert the custom component by placing the selector tag in the root component.

```html
<!-- app.component.html -->
<h1>App Component</h1>
<hr>
<app-server></app-server>
```

## Creating Components with the CLI & Nesting Components

```powershell
ng generate component servers
```

* This will create a component and even add the component entry in app.module.ts at declarations.
* We can nest the components inside the other component and can use how many time we need it.

```html
<!-- servers.component.html -->
<app-server></app-server>
<app-server></app-server>
```

```html
<!-- app.component.html -->
<h1>App Component</h1>
<hr>
<app-servers></app-servers>
```

## Working with Component Templates

* Template is a mandatory property of the ```@Component({})```, we can omit only selector if we used router-outlet to view the template.
* We can have the inline template for template property with template.
* If we have more than three lines of code it is good practice to have a separate template.

```typescript
/* servers.component.ts */
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-servers',
  /* template: '<app-server></app-server><app-server></app-server>', */
  template: `
  <app-server></app-server>
  <app-server></app-server>
  `,
  styleUrls: ['./servers.component.css']
})
export class ServersComponent implements OnInit {

  constructor() { }

  ngOnInit() {
  }

}

```

## Working with Component Styles

* ```stylesUrls: ['./servers.components.css']``` is a array as we can point multiple stylesheets for a template.

* We can even write the inline style using the ``` ` ```.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styles: [`
  h1 {
    color: dodgerBlue;
  }
  `]
})
```

## Fully Understanding the Component Selector

* We can write the selector in two other ways inside the ```@Component({})```
* Selector as a css class selector.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: '.app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
```

```html
<div class="app-servers"></div>
```

* Selector as a attribute selector.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: '[app-root]',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
```

```html
<div app-servers></div>
```

## What is Databinding

* Communication between the typescript code and the template is a very basic use case.
* We need to fetch the data from server or to do some calculation with some business logic we need the typescript file.
The result what we got needs to be printed on the template as that is the only place where a user can see and interact.
* We have four different way of interaction between the template and the typescript file.

1. String Interpolation ```{{expression}}```
2. Property binding ```[property]="data"```
3. Reacting to the user events ```(event)="expression"```
4. Combination of both Two way data binding ```[(ngModel)]="data"```

## String Interpolation

Any expression which can be resolved to a string can be displayed by the string interpolation.

We can't write a multi line statements inside string interpolation. we can use a ternary expression or a function which return a string.

```html
<p>{{'Server'}} with ID {{serverID}} is {{getServerStatus()}}</p>
```

## Property Binding

* We can set properties for any native html attributes with the property binding.

```html
<button class="btn btn-primary" [disabled]="!allowNewServer">Add Server</button>
```

* We can update the dynamically during the run time.
* We can also pass the property binding to directives and components.

## Property Binding vs String Interpolation

* We can use to property binding the place of string interpolation.

```html
<p [innerText]="allowNewServer"></p>
```

* To print any value on the template, we need to use string interpolation.
* To assign any value to a html attribute, directive or component we need to use property binding.
* We should not assign the property binding value as string interpolation. Every time string interpolation expects a variable name not a string.

## Event Binding

* We can bind the events with ```(event)="onEventTriggered()"```, we can even write the single line expression.

```html
<button class="btn btn-primary" [disabled]="!allowNewServer"
(click)="onServerCreated()">Add Server</button>
```

## Bindable Properties and Events

You can basically bind to all Properties and Events - a good idea is to console.log()  the element you're interested in to see which properties and events it offers.

## Passing and Using Data with Event Binding

* We can listen to the changes what are entered by the user with the event listener on input.

* This event will trigger whenever we type and call the method.
* $event on the binding will give the data which is related to that event.

## Important: FormsModule is Required for Two-Way-Binding

* To enable the ngModel  directive. This is done by adding the ```FormsModule``` to the ```imports[]``` array in the AppModule.

* You then also need to add the import from ```@angular/forms```  in the app.module.ts file:

```typescript
import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
```

## Two-Way-Databinding

* With two way databinding we can set the value from the typescript or directly from the user interaction.
* The data will flow in both the direction. In the previous example we are only listing to the user events.

```html
<input type="text" class="form-control" [(ngModel)]="serverName">
```

## Combining all Forms of Databinding

* We use all four binding in the above server example.
* Property and Event on Create Server Button.
* Two-way data binding and string interpolation on the input.

## Understanding Directives

* Directives are the instructions in the DOM
* Components are also directives but with a template.
* Directive are without a template.
* Directive has the ```@Directive({})```

## Using ngIf to Output Data Conditionally

* ```*``` is used before the *ngIf because it is a structural directive as it will change the structure of the page.
* ```*ngIf``` will directly operate on the DOM it won't be hided or showed.
* It will take either true or false or in the end which return boolean values.

## Enhancing ngIf with an Else Condition

* We can use *ngIf with the else condition.

```html
<p *ngIf="serverCreatedState; else noServer">{{serverCreatedStatus}}</p>
<ng-template #noServer>
  <p>{{serverCreatedStatus}}</p>
</ng-template>
```

* ```ng-template``` is a directive which helps us to place the marker ```#noServer```

## Styling Elements Dynamically with ngStyle

* These are the attribute directives.
* This directives will change elements on which they were placed.
* we can set the ngStyle with the property binding. which expects a JavaScript object

```html
<p [ngStyle]="{backgroundColor : getColor(), color: 'white'}">
  {{'Server'}} with ID {{serverID}} is {{getServerStatus()}}</p>
````

```typescript
export class ServerComponent {
  serverID = 1;
  serverStatus: string;

  constructor() {
    this.serverStatus = Math.random() > 0.5 ? 'online' : 'offline'
  }

  getServerStatus(): string {
    return this.serverStatus;
  }

  getColor(): string {
    return this.serverStatus == 'online' ? 'green' : 'red';
  }
}
```

## Applying CSS Classes Dynamically with ngClass

* ```ngClass``` helps to dynamically add or remove css class.
* The will work with the property binding.
* We need to specify the the class name as a key.
* Value will the condition which we want to check. The class will be applied only if the condition is true.

```html
<p [ngStyle]="{backgroundColor : getColor()}" [ngClass]="{online : serverStatus === 'online'}">
  {{'Server'}} with ID {{serverID}} is {{getServerStatus()}}
</p>
```

## Outputting Lists with ngFor

* This is a structural directive, which will manipulate the DOM.
* We need to use the syntax of JavaScript for...of loop.

```html
<app-server *ngFor="let server of servers"></app-server>
```
