# Course Project The Basics

## Introduction

* We are going to build Recipe Book and Shopping List app throughout this course.
* **Recipe Book**: Manage and View them in detail.
* **Shopping List**: Even we can push the ingredients directly from recipe book to shopping list.

## Planning the App

The app outline is designed that it will have the below mentioned component for the listed features.

### Shopping List

* Shopping List
* Shopping List Edit
* Ingredient

### Recipe Book

* Recipe List
* Recipe Item
* Recipe Details
* Recipe

## Installing Bootstrap Correctly

* Bootstrap 3 is used in the project.

```shell
npm install --save bootstrap@3
```

## Setting up the Application

* In ```angular.json``` we need to set the css path of the minifier version of stylesheet to ```styles: []```

## Creating the Components

* header
* recipes
  * recipe-details
  * recipe-list
    * recipe-item
* shopping-list
  * shopping-edit

## Using the Components

* We kept the recipes and shopping list as the wrapper components and viewing the nested components.

## Adding a Navigation Bar

* We added the bootstrap navbar with Brand Name as Recipe Book.
* Two Links as Recipes and Shopping List
* One Dropdown as Manage.

## Creating a "Recipe" Model

* We created a recipe model as a class with a constructor.
* So when we created a new instance of the class the constructor will be called once and a blueprint can be easily get created.

## Adding Content to the Recipes Components

## Outputting a List of Recipes with ngFor

## Displaying Recipe Details

## Working on the ShoppingListComponent

## Creating an "Ingredient" Model

* We can even add the constructor to create in the new blueprint using a shorthand syntax offered by typescript.

```typescript
export class Ingredient {
  constructor(public name: string, public amount: number) { }
}
```

## Creating and Outputting the Shopping List

## Adding a Shopping List Edit Section

## Wrap Up & Next Steps
