# Component & Data binding Deep Drive

## Introduction

* Till now we setup a new project with components based on the basic concepts.
* We are going to update our app with data binding this helps in components communication.

## Splitting Apps into Components

* We created two components
  1. Cockpit
  2. ServerElement

* **Cockpit**: This will have the form which will take name and content of the server and has two button add blueprint or server.
* **Server Elements**: This will show the list of servers which are created by the cockpits applies the relevant style based on the server type.

## Property & Event Binding Overview

* Property and event binding will work on three items on the Angular
  1. HTML Elements
  2. Directives
  3. Components

## Binding to Custom Properties

* To bind a property to a component we need to define a custom property that will be accepted by the component.
* By default components won't accept the properties to be bind, we need to set a property which is defined on the component to accept with ```@Input()``` we can do this.
* We can set the alias names for binding but we need to use only the alias name once we set it.

```html
<!-- app.component.html -->
<app-server-element *ngFor="let element of serverElements" [serverElement]="element"></app-server-element>
```

```typescript
/* server-element.component.ts */
@Input('serverElement') element: { type: string, name: string, content: string };
```

## Binding to custom Events

* To bind a event to a component we need to define a custom event that will be accepted by the component.
* By default components won't accept the event to be bind, we need to set a property which is defined on the component to accept with ```@Output()``` we can do this.
* The communication is flowing from the parent to child. So we need to output the data from child to parent.
* In this server creation we need to emit the click event with the data of the user entered text for this we need to use ```EventEmitter```.
* We can set the alias names for binding but we need to use only the alias name once we set it.

```html
<!-- app.component.html -->
<app-cockpit (serverCreated)="onServerAdded($event)" (blueprintCreated)="onBlueprintAdded($event)"></app-cockpit>
```

```typescript
/* server-element.component.ts */
export class CockpitComponent implements OnInit {

  @Output() serverCreated = new EventEmitter<Server>();
  @Output() blueprintCreated = new EventEmitter<Server>();
  serverName: string;
  serverContent: string;

  constructor() { }

  ngOnInit() {
  }

  onAddServer() {
    this.serverCreated.emit({
      type: 'server',
      name: this.serverName,
      content: this.serverContent
    });
  }

  onAddBlueprint() {
    this.blueprintCreated.emit({
      type: 'blueprint',
      name: this.serverName,
      content: this.serverContent
    });
  }
}
```

## Understanding View Encapsulation

* Every component which is created by the Angular will make add html elements on the page these elements are assigned with unique attributes.
* Angular will try to emulate the feature of the shadow DOM.
* By default this kind of Encapsulation of the unique attributes will be added for every components.
* So this help us to apply css style rules of which are defined for the components to apply for the components only.

## More on View Encapsulation

* We can change the behavior either to apply the shadow DOM technology or completely remove the extra added unique attributes.
* In ```@Component(encapsulation: 'ViewEncapsulation.None')``` will remove the extra attributes.
* In ```@Component(encapsulation: 'ViewEncapsulation.Native')``` will add the shadow DOM.
* In ```@Component(encapsulation: 'ViewEncapsulation.Emulated')``` add the unique attributes for the components elements applied as default.

## Using Local References in Templates

* We can hold the reference of the whole HTML element with ```#``` on the HTML element on the component
* We can pass the element through the methods as the arguments.

```html
<input type="text" class="form-control" name="serverName" placeholder="Server Name" #serverNameInput>
```

```typescript
onAddServer(serverNameInput: HTMLInputElement) {
  this.serverCreated.emit({
    type: 'server',
    name: serverNameInput.value,
    content: this.serverContent
  });
}
```

## Getting Access to the Template & DOM with @ViewChild

* We can get the access of the element with by placing the ```#``` on the element, but to use it we need to send it as a method argument.
* To have a live access of the template to component.ts we can use the ```@ViewChild('local-reference') variableName```, ```@ViewChild(ComponentName) variableName```.
* We will get the element reference as the return type.

## Projecting Content into Components with ng-content

* Custom element which we created using selector of ```@Component()``` If we write some content inside this ```<custom-elements></custom-element>``` Angular will omit this.
* We can send the data to the component by placing the ```<ng-content></ng-content>``` directive inside the component.
* So we can able to write the data inside the component.

## Understanding the Component Life cycle

* We have 8 life cycle hooks in Angular. Which are applied for every component which is created by Angular.
  
1. ```ngOnChanges```: Called after a bound input property changes.
    * If our component view is depended on ```@Input()``` and when ever this property got changed by the parent this life cycle hook will get invoked.

2. ```ngOnInit```: Called once the component got initialized
    * Before the component got loaded on browser this hook will run. ngOnInit will run after the constructor().

3. ```ngDoCheck```: Called during every change detection run.
    * This will get called on every minor change which happen on the component even on a button click which doesn't perform an action on template as that is emitting a event.

4. ```ngAfterContentInit```: Called after content (ng-content) has been project to view.
    * If our component has a ```<ng-content></ng-content>``` then this hook will get invoke before it loaded the view of the ```<ng-content></ng-content>```.

5. ````ngAfterContentChecked```: Called every time the projected content has been checked.
    * When every the change detection has be done for the ```ng-content```

6. ```ngAfterViewInit```: Called after the component's view (and child views) has been initialized.
    * Once the entire view is loaded this will run.

7. ```ngAfterViewChecked```: Called every time the view (and child views) have been checked.
    * View changes are done this will be called.

8. ```ngDestroy```:
    * Will be called every time when ever there is a change on the DOM.

## Seeing Life cycle Hooks in Action

## Life cycle Hooks and Template Access

## Getting Access to ng-content with @ContentChild

* ContentInit mean the ng-content which is present on the component. ViewInit mean the view of the component.
* If we placed a local reference with ```#``` on the component where we are writing the content inside the custom HTML component name. We can't access such local reference with ```@ViewChild``` as it is not directly the view child of the component.
* For this kind of scenario we need to use the ```@ContentChild```

## Wrap Up
