# Syntax Changes and Additions

## Let and Block Scope

```let``` and ```const``` are the new keywords which are added to ES6 this will change the way we are using variables.

let keyword will declare varibles with block level scope.

```javascript
let scope = 'Global'

if (true) {
  let scope = 'Local';
  console.log(scope);
}

console.log(scope);
```

## Constants with const

```const``` keyword will be used to declare values which are constants. It is recommanded to declare const label with uppercase.

If we declare a array or object with const we can able to manipulate its data as that is not changing the pointer which is pointing to the memory locaion. Instead we are updating the memory block not the pointer.

```javascript
const PI = Math.PI;
console.log(PI);

const ARRAY = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
ARRAY.push(6);
```

## Hoisting in ES6

* Hoisting will pull all the declaration to the top irresptive of the positing there are present in code.

* This behaviour is not applied for let and const keywords.

```javascript
console.log(variable);
/* Not Defined as hoisting will not work on block scope elements. */
let variable;
```

## Fat Arrow Functions

* This is the shorthand way of writing the function.
* If we have a single line of code we can eliminate ```{ }``` and return keyword
* If we have single argument we can eliminate (), 0 or >1 needed ()
* Even the confusion of this keyword got sorted with ```=>```.

```javascript
let sum = (firstValue, secondValue) => {
  let total = firstValue + secondValue;
  return total;
}
console.log(sum(1024, 1024));

let multipleOfTwo = parameter => parameter * 2;
console.log(multipleOfTwo(512));

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log(512);
}, 2000)
```

## Fat Arrow function and the this keyword

The key difference between the fat arrow function and the normal function is the way it refers the this keyword.

The fat arrow function this keyword will allways refers to the global scope. Even on the eventListner calls.

So we can access the root DOM element.
normal function will relate this with the place which it got invoked.
Bind, Call and Apply was used in ES5 to gain this behaviour.

```javascript
let normalButton = document.getElementById('normal');
let fatButton = document.getElementById('fat');

function normalFunction() {
  console.log(this);
}

let fatArrowFunction = () => console.log(this);
normalButton.addEventListener('click', normalFunction);
fatButton.addEventListener('click', fatArrowFunction);
```

## Functions and default parameters

This works with both the type of functions.

We can assign a default values to parameters. This default will be used if we are not passed required parameters to the function.

We can also assign the variables to default parameter and they can read the code from top-bottom approach.

We can do some mathematical computation while assigning the default values.

```javascript
function addTwoValues(firstValue, secondValue = 30) {
  return firstValue + secondValue;
}

addTwoValues(10);
```

## Object Literal Extension

Object have a behaviour to take the value from the variable around them and assign it if there key labels are matching.

If we assign a value explictly it will overwrite the default available values.

Function declaration without following the key value pair syntax.
We can also have spaces for functionName with 'greet'() declaration of object key.

We can assign the key values dynamically inside objects with [].
we can access that with objectExtension[dynamicField] or objectExtension.hobbies

```javascript
let name = 'Mani Chandu';
let age = 25;
let hobbies = 'badminton';
let dynamicField = 'hobbies';
let objectExtension = {
  name,
  age,
  [dynamicField]: 'badminton',
  'greet me'() {
    console.log('Hello ' + this.name);
  },
};

console.log(objectExtension);
```

## The Rest Operator

To join list of values into a array. Rest Operators will take a stream of values which are passed as a parameters to a function as a array.

```javascript
function sumUp(...args) {
  let result = 0;
  for (let index = 0; index < args.length; index++) {
    result += args[index];
  }
  return result;
}

console.log(sumUp(128, 128, 256, 512));
```

## The Spread Operator

To split up a array into list of values spread operator is used.
This look exactly same as the rest operator.

JavaScript will differentiate based on the place which is being used.
This will be used in the calling of the functions.

```javascript
let numbers = [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
console.log(Math.max(...numbers));
```

## The for-of loop

Looping through array with shorthand syntax.

```javascript
for (const number of numbers) {
  console.log(number);
}
```

## Template Literals

These are the strings with extra features.

* We can able to write multi line strings.
* We can even print the variable with template literal notation.
* We can even do mathematical operations inside the {}.
* We can escape it with \

```javascript
let templateLiteral = `Hello I'm ${name} printing this with template literal notation.`;

console.log(templateLiteral);
```

## Destructing Arrays

* This will assign individual variable name by taking the whole array.
* If the number of variables for assignments are more then it will assign undefined value to the extra variable.
* We can use spread operator then it will assign the rest of the variables as a array to variable.
* We can set default values incase if the value of inital array is undefined.
* We can swap variables easily
* We can assign selected indexs by leaving blanks space.

```javascript
destructArray = [1, 2, 3];
let [a, b, c, d] = destructArray; // a = 1, b = 2, c = 3, d = undefined

let [single, ...spread] = destructArray; // single = a, spread = [2,3]

let [defaultInit = 'default', b, c, d = 'default']; //  a = 1, b = 2, c = 3, d = default

let swapOne = 1;
let swapTwo = 2;

let [swapTwo, swapOne] = [swapOne, swapTwo]; // swapOne = 2, SwapTwo = 1;

let [fillOne, , fillThree] = destructArray; // fillOne = 1, fillThree = 3;
```

## Destructing Objects

We can destruct the object but here the variables names of the object must match with the keys of object.

We can't use the blankspace as the object doesn't follows the strict ordering rules the variable name is important.

We can assign aliase names later we can access only with the aliase name.

```javascript
var destructObject = {
  name: 'Mani Chandu',
  age: 25,
  greet: () => console.log('Hello')
}

let { name, age, greet: hello } = destructObject;
```

## Destructuing Summary

* A very powerful tool which can assign the values dynamically to given variables.
* The key difference between array and object destructing.
* Arrays takes in the position to assign the variables.
* Objects takes the names to assign the variables.
